And
here
share
screen.
So what you did
in Excel last class
didn't work for me
when it came to
hex to binary.
Oh, uh, as I said, when you want
to convert hex to binary, you
have to 1st convert hexadecimal
to decimal and then from decimal
to binary. That Excel sheet only
convert from decimal to binary
so it doesn't have that part
that does the conversion from
any other base to decimal. So
the first part was not in the
access to yeah.
Yes, as as in the lecture
assignment I said there is a
very easy way to convert
directly from any base that are
powers of two to the binary. For
instance, hexadecimal is 2 to
the power of four, so because it
is a power of two, it's a very,
very fast way to convert it to binary in the I
mean in the previous week
assignment I asked you to prove.
Why this algorithm actually is
correct? I mean you just have to
split for each digit of the
hexadecimal. You have to just
write down the binary equivalent
of that. But there is a proof
for that. So I mean by
mathematical formula we could
find this algorithm.
I.
So use the computer making.
Creating
Yeah, but uh, remember that fast
algorithm is just four basis
that are powers of two. For
instance, if you want to convert
from base 7 to base two, that
algorithm doesn't work, so you
have to convert the number in
base 7 to base 10 decimal system
and then converted to binary.
Yeah.
So I hope all of you can see
my screen. I just wanted to.
So.
Let me enable more I.
Laser point.
Yeah.
Um?
Today I mean I start with a
quick recap of what we said. I
mean, last lecture which was
about a sign magnitude. So let's
start. Uh, we already have the
recording. I believe yes.
Um?
So I think all of you can see my
screen now. This slide I'm in
sign magnitude correct.
OK Oh yeah, awesome. So what
we said last week was that
we had numbering system that
could represent just numbers.
And then we improve the
numbering system to have a more
precise precision. So we
introduce how to represent a
fraction part. And then we said
that we can convert any number
in any basis to any other basis.
But for doing that we have to
use the decimal system.
So if you're in base 177.
And we have a number there. If
you want to convert it to base,
for instance nine, you have to
1st convert the base 7 to
decimal system and then from
decimal system to base 9. The
first part was based on the
mathematical formulation. Just
multiply each digit to the
significant of that position.
And then sum them together. This
way you bring it to the decimal
system from decimal system to
the other system for the integer
part you do divisions and then
put the remainder in the reverse
order. For the fraction part,
you multiply by the base, I mean
each digit you multiply the
sorry you multiply the fraction
part in the decimal system by
that new basis for subspace 9,
and then you keep the integer
part of the result, and then you
continue with the remainder
fraction part and then you put
these integer parts in the right
order. So this way you come up
with a new number.
In the new by a number system.
But then we said that we want to
represent negative numbers.
And the reason was that in in a.
We start doing arithmetic, for
instance addition and
subtraction. In addition, there
is no problem. We can simply
follow the algorithm in decimal
system. But in subtraction,
although the algorithm was the
same as decimal system, we just
simply subtract 2 numbers. But
if the first number is lower
than the second number, there
correct result is going to be
negative, and so we have to come
up with a system that can
represent negative numbers.
We introduced a the new system
called sign magnitude.
In this system, we said that if
you're given an position.
We are the first position on the
left side or the highest
significant position. We just
extract that position.
And we assume that that's for
sign, so this is not part of the
number anymore and the remaining
position or the actual number.
So that's why we call it signed
magnitude. So the highest
significant position is just for
sign. We extract it and this is
not part of the number anymore.
And then the remainder number
are the magnitude of the number.
If you are going to represent
positive number without put zero
in design position.
And if you are going to
represent negative number in any
base function space or.
You put a non 0 digit there, it
could be 1 two in base R or we
could put a number. For instance
are minus one or minus one.
So we said that this way, uh, we
have a system that represented
numbers. But the problem with
this system is that.
Uh, because we does extract one
position. The highest
significant reason for sign the
range of numbers is reduced
before the Arctic will represent
numbers from zero up until uh or
to the power of 10 -- 1. Now
that we just lose one of the
positions for the sign, so the
Max positive number gonna be our
to the power of N -- 1 -- 1.
So one question we lose that
position. Your son instead.
The minimum number is not true
anymore because we are going to
repeat. We can represent
negative numbers and the
negative numbers is just.
Because in the in the magnitude
part we can put the largest
positive number. But in the
design position we could put a
non 0 value, it becomes a
negative. Maximum positive
numbers, so it becomes minus.
Uh or negative or to the power
of N -- 1 -- 1.
So in terms of magnitude, the
maximum number and the minimum
number have the same magnitude,
but their science is different.
That's positive maximum. This
is negative minimum.
But we see that we
have two zeros,
positive, zero and
negative zeros, which
is not good.
Here's are some samples. For
instance, if you are in base 2.
Uh, and you are given 6
positions from zero up until the
last position you extract the
highest significant position or
the first position from the left
as a sign. So I put it a Gray
because this is not a part of
the number anymore, so the
number. Is this an? If you want
to see what's this number, this
number positive number because
we have zero in the same
position. So this is plus.
Three or positive 3.
The second number, this number,
the magnitude, is 5. If you
converted to a decimal system,
but the sign is any non negative
digit. Sorry any non 0 digit.
In binary system, down 2 digits
zero and one the only non 0
digit is 1. So this is the only
possibility for negative
numbers. This is exceptional in
binary system. In binary system.
The only way we can represent a
negative number is just putting
one in the same position.
However, in other position
in other places, for
instance based 7.
As you can see here, the first
number, if you converted to the
decimal system it is 41, but
this number is positive because
here we have 0.
All the other numbers here 205
the magnitude is 103.
But because there is a non 0
digit in the same position they
are negative. So all these three
different numbers in base seven
all are the same number.
Minus 103 That was another
problem of this sign magnitude.
Best friends combination of
numbers is interpreted as one
number, so we are wasting, for
instance, we're wasting this
number. Uh, as he called to this
number so any other non 0
digits. For instance you could
put here five you could put here
3 whatever non 0 number all are
the same negative 103.
That's why I mean by wasting
the combinations of digits
in sign magnitude.
And then we said that in sign
magnitude the arithmetic is
very simple because.
Oh Caden has a problem so.
The thing is you have to just
extract the first position from
the left side.
And as long as there's a non 0
digit, it means that the
remaining number is negative.
As long as it is zero, it
means that the remainder
night numbers are positive.
So the confusion is this. I
mean, it might be I mean a
confusion because as we said,
non zero represent a negative
number as a result for one
single negative number you
are. You can represent it as
different ways.
For instance, if you are asked
represent minus. Negative 103.
If you put the this number,
that's correct. If you put this
number, that's correct, and also
this one that's correct. The
magnitudes are the same, but for
design position you could put
any non 0 digits.
Yes, if you are in
a binary system.
If you are in binary system, you
are. You're dealing with a
negative number, yes?
I
think
yes
and
equal
to.
So let's continue for now.
Maybe maybe maybe in the next
few slides you see you can
understand more when we
introduced a new system Radix
complement system.
OK.
Or in the arithmetic for the
sign magnitude. I'll be
back with your question at
Anna and yeah.
Just keep reminding the after. I
mean these slides.
So the arithmetic is very simple
in sign magnitude system because
of two separate I mean
positions. The one position for
sign and the other positions for
the number. So either you do
addition or subtraction in
the edition. If you're adding
two positive numbers, meaning
that the sun position has
zero, adding two positive
numbers always positive. So
you just Simply put a zero in
the same position an for the
remaining position. You just
simply do the addition as we
know in any system without
sign we already did that.
Also, if you're adding two
negative numbers, meaning that
the highest significant position
is non 0.
It would. I mean, it's not
necessary to be one. It would be
any non 0 digit.
So if you do addition as a
result, you come up with a
negative number, so you put a
non 0 value in the same position
an you do normal addition
because negative number plus
negative number is you have. You
can extract a negative sign it
becomes X + y but negative.
And The only exception here is
this. If you're adding a
positive number and a negative
number. So it depends on
the, uh, the magnitude of the
numbers, so the result is not
determined to be negative or
positive, because if X.
Is larger than what the result
is positive. If X is lower than
Y, it is negative.
So basically what you do is
because this feels the second
number is negative, so X plus my
wife becomes X -- Y. So you do
normal subtraction and you see whether there's the last borrow
or not. If there's a last forum
means that X was lower than Y is
smaller than Y, so as a result.
Result is negative. You put a
non 0 digits here.
If there is no last, bottom
means that X was larger than
what, so the result is positive.
So you put 0 here.
For the subtraction, uh, so,
subtracting a positive number
from a negative number? Sorry
from a positive number, so
positive minus positive, so it
becomes. So I mean a
subtraction. So again, the
design position is not
determined up until you do the
subtraction based on the bottle,
you could determine the sun.
If X is lower than Y means that
this sign of why should be here?
Uh, and if X is larger than Y,
so it means that the subtraction
is positive, so you put 0 here.
If you're subtracting a
positive minus and negative
number by mathematical
formula, it becomes a
addition, so you just simply
do addition an always the sign
position going to be 0 means
that the result is always
positive.
The last one. This is very
important and tricky.
A negative number minus.
In negative number by math
formula it becomes negative X
plus because minus negative
becomes plus, so minus X + Y
becomes. So basically this one
we don't know how to do this,
But if you switch them it
becomes a subtraction. So minus
X + y is equal to y --
X. So you do this subtraction as
you already know how to do that
without any sign.
And then you determine whether
there's a last for now. If
there's a last four, oh, it
means that why was lower than X
or smaller than X?
So when? Why was lower than X?
Here means that why was lower than X, so the
sign of X determines
the sign of the result.
So you put a non 0 digit here.
So you see, the logic here is
the reverse of the logic here.
Because here you do y -- X An if
this last problem is that why is
smaller than X?
And, uh, the results of X
determines the results.
Determine the sign so it becomes non zero digit
If X is larger than a
X, there is no last borrow.
As a result, the.
Minus negative Y becomes
positive, so the result is
positive. So you put 0 here.
So let's have some examples of
examples. You can understand it
more. So the first example is
this. We are in base 16.
And we are set that we are in
sign magnitude. So the question
or the problem says that in what
system we are. You are sad
that we wanna sign magic. If
you haven't said that we are
in the same magnitude, we
have to consider this
position as part of the
number. But now we are said
that we are in a base 16 sign
magnitude. As a result, the
first position from the left
side is not part of the
number. That's why I didn't
extend this line here.
So we are going to add 2 numbers
in base 16.
First of all, we have to see
what are the sign of the
numbers. So. Oh
First we make it, uh, I mean,
padding same size. Now we see
that the first number.
This is the magnitude, and this
is the sign position. The sign
position is non zero, it could
be 5. It could be 10. It could
be a anything any non 0 because
it is non 0. So the first number
is a negative number so minus X.
The second number is also in
the sign position. We have a
non 0 value.
Umm again, I don't say one. I'm
saying non 0 because it could be
any non 0 digit here to show
that this number is negative.
So the second number is also
negative, so a negative number
added by another negative number
which is equal to magnitude.
Some of the magnitudes, but the
result is. Negative number, so
before doing the addition we
already know that the result is
negative, so we put in non 0
value in the same position.
Now we continue with the
addition. If you do, the
addition here is the result. I
mean, the addition is very
simple, 4 + 0, four 5 plus DB
Eleven 5 + 11 is 16. So you
divide by 16 their remainder
And, Carry And, etc.
As we already any normal
edition.
But this is a negative number
because in the same position we
have a non 0 value.
The second example is about,
uh, adding two.
Numbers again, we are in base 16
and we are set that we are in
sign magnitude system. As a
result, the first position from
the left side is not part of the
number, it just shows these
signs. So let's see we
are doing addition of
what type of numbers?
First, same size and then the
first number. Because we have
zero in design position, it is a
positive number, so the first
number is positive X.
The second number we see a non 0
value here, so the result is the
number is negative.
So based on what we said, a
positive number added by a
negative number. Design of the
result cannot be determined
because if X is larger, this
sign is positive. If X is
smaller, the sign is negative.
So we cannot determine the sign
of the result before doing the
actual arithmetic. So plus X +
-- y becomes X -- Y, so we do in
normal subtraction 1st and at
the end we determine whether we
have a negative result or
positive. So we start doing the
normal subtraction. So again,
although we had addition because
we are adding a positive with a
negative number, it becomes
subtraction. So now we do the
subtraction, so if you do the
subtraction so 4 -- 0 becomes 45
minus. B is not possible. We
need to borrow from the higher
position and then 16 + 5 -- B
becomes a or 10 and etc.
But if you continue, you see
that in the last position you
need another bar. We already
said that in the subtraction
you see last borrow, it means that the first number was
smaller than the 2nd.
Now we know that X was lower
than what? Here is the result
and here is this the way that we
see that the first number is
smaller than the second number,
but in the subtraction we said
that whenever we have the last
four of, the result is not
correct. You have to do another
subtraction, but that highest
number that we borrowed that
last quarter. So after doing
another subtraction to come up
with the correct answer. So we
did this one subtracted. From
this we end up with this result
and the last four. Oh, so in
order to correct the result we
have to do another subtraction
with that higher number that we
borrowed from. And this is the
correct number.
But we already have the correct
number. But what's this
signature of this number?
Weather this summer is positive
or negative because we already
saw that there's a last follow.
This is a negative number, so we
put in non 0 value here.
Again, you could put two. You
could put three. You could put
any valid digit which is not
zero in base 16.
One thing happened in sign
magnitude is that.
If you do the arithmetic
because I mean you're stuck
with for instance addition
or subtraction, but based
on the sign of the numbers
to end up with the actual
addition or subtraction.
Sometimes the result is big and
an you cannot to present the
results in a.
In the in the given positions.
Uh. Are you able to hear
me? Well, because?
My guess?
Can you hear me?
Awesome cool. OK, because
I saw I mean answered
interruption here. OK so for
those for those arithmetic that
you actually end up with
addition. The result gonna be
might be higher than uh.
What might be big? I cannot
represent it in a given
position. So that you have to
use that sign position to
represent your big number
whenever the results of your
arithmetic produce a carry.
And that Carrie goes to
this sign position, it
is sign of overflow in
signed magnitude system.
And this is possible in when you
do. When you add 2 positive
numbers. Here.
Also, when you do add two
negative numbers. Here.
Also here when you are
subtracting a negative number
from a positive number.
Because at the end of the day,
these subtraction becomes
addition. An addition may result
in a larger number.
So in all arithmetic that you
actually end up with the
addition, it might be.
Uh, uh, Carry And case
of overflow. So let's have an
example. Assuming we are in
the base to sign magnitude
system and we are going to
do a subtraction.
So let's see what the sign of
the first number we are given
how many position 123456
positions. However, we are set
your in sign magnitude, so the
first position from the left
side is not part of the number.
So we just extract this
part as the sign and
the remainder positions
are the actual numbers.
So we see a zero in design
position. It means that the
first number is positive and
if you convert the first
number into decimal system,
it's is positive 27.
The second number.
Because we have a non 0 value
in this sign position, it is a
negative number, so the
magnitude is this.
So if you convert this number to
decimal system is 14 and this is
a negative number, so it's
negative 14. But these are just
for our information. It doesn't
matter for us, but as long as we
know that the first time is
positive and the second number
is negative, that's fine with
us. Now let's see what type of
arithmetic we are doing. We are
doing a positive number minus a
negative number. Well, I math we
know that this arithmetic is
equal to positive.
Minus negative becomes part of
positive, so it becomes plus X
+ Y. So this
subtraction becomes addition.
So now you continue with. The
addition is doing the
subtraction. But you do this
addition in the magnitude
numbers. You don't care about
the sign, but already you know
that this is going to have this
arithmetic is going to have a
positive number, so you put a
non 0 value in the sign position
of the result.
So.
Positive. It's going to be 0
now. You do the normal edition.
If you do the normal addition,
so 1 + 0 one 1 + 1 to
two so remainder and then I
carry 1 + 0 + 1 becomes 2. Two
it not, you cannot represent it.
You have to divide it by two.
The remainder Achnacarry 1 + 1 +
1, three 3 /, 2 remainder
Achnacarry up until the last
one. You see that.
The remaining position when
you do the addition 'cause it
last Carrie and this Carrie
goes to the sun position, but
the sign position is not part
of the number. You cannot
store this number.
Now you see that there is an
instance of overflow.
If you restore it it, the result
becomes negative, which is
wrong, so as whenever you have a
last carry in sign magnitude, it
means that there is an overflow.
So you just simply say that do
not look at the result. There
is all this not correct. An
awful happen. Whenever there
is an overflow, you cannot fix
it. You just say that the
result is an overflow and the
result is not reliable.
So now I'm ready to take your
questions if there is any, so
let's back to.
Questions.
Tetiana asked, I think, yes, an
equal to 11101.
Um?
Oh Let me first Tetiana. If you still have questions, you
can put your question in the
chat box. Uh.
Can you tell me?
So Caden asked that, how can we tell if the leftmost number is
part of the actual number or
not? Usually in the question or
in a system, they said that the
number of positions are fixed.
For instance, they say that we
have 16 positions.
And we are in sign magnitude.
So as a result, the 16th
position is the sign and you
only have 15 position to
represent us in the question
or in the system. They say
that what's the number of
positions? So it usually in
the systems the number of
positions are fixed.
I'm sorry, yeah.
So the question.
Caden asked that, uh, are you going to tell us?
When we are dealing with
unsigned and signed, yes yes in
a question or in a system says
that this number is in a sign
magnitude. This this number is
in a when they don't say these
or other system it means that
this is in a normal. I mean
number system. So in the
question says that what is the
system? This system is a sign
magnitude means that the system
is supporting negative numbers
or when there is no hint about
that, it means that you're in an
unsigned system, so there's no
sign for that order.
Yes, in the system when the
question they say that.
You just said that for overflow,
why not adding one positions?
Because usually in the system
the number of positions are
fixed. For instance, they said
that we are. We only have 16
position or we only have 10
position. You are not allowed to
add a position. Later, when we
build a computer system, you see
that, uh, we for each new
position you have to.
Build a unit so it's expensive.
Hi Kevin, ask how did you know
to start with?
X -- -- 1 oh as you said as I
I'm sorry. As I said, let me go
back to the slides.
Let me back to here
for instance.
Let me come back here yet.
Well, since you are given these
two numbers. And you are, the
operator is already determined.
It says that you have to
subtract these two numbers.
So then before doing the
subtraction, you have to
determine this sign of the
numbers. You see that in the
question says that these numbers
are in the sign magnitude. So
and you are doing a subtracting
in sign magnitude. So before
doing this subtraction you have
to see what are these sign. So
because in sign magnitude the
first position determines the
sign. So first number.
Zero value, it means that the
first number is positive, the
second number is 90. It means
that the second number is
negative. So actually you are
doing plus X. The first number
is positive, subtracted from.
And negative number. So based on
the sign position you are, you
know that you are dealing with
the negative positive number and
this is from the map from the
calculus that. Plus X minus
negative Y it ends up with.
X + Y and the result is
positive. This comes from math.
So and then any other questions?
Just to be clear, in base two,
when we go one one is equals to
zero mechanical? Yes yeah, 1 + 1
becomes two 2 / 2 as a coach and
one as a 0. So it ends up with
zero and carry yes.
Ah. Let Kevin says that
so plus 27 is equal to.
Minus 14.
Um?
It numbers face. I don't have
it. Yeah, the number of
positions is usually Kevin I. I
don't understand this question
that you said. I mean plus 27 is
equal to minus 14.
I'm not sure I understand that.
OK, so let's continue.
Now
Oh OK, so let's continue. This is the sign, uh,
I mean arithmetic in science
system, an overflowing science
system. But again, in the
lecture assignment I put a
question, this table is very
important. This is life.
He got it includes all
combination of arithmetic in
signed magnitude stem and what
you should do before doing the
actual arithmetic. Some case you
know already the sign of the
results. In some cases you have
to do arithmetic and then based
on the last photo you determine
that you have to put a 0 value
in some position or non 0 value
in some position.
So. But as I said, in sign
magnitude we are wasting a
lot of positions.
As I said, this is a an exercise
in the assignments that what are
the waste in sign magnitude? We
said that we have two zeros in
this system plus and minus zero.
This is one ways.
I always reset that for negative
numbers you have a different.
You can put any non 0 digits in
the summer position to represent
the same number.
So this is another waste.
All. Now we want
to improve this sign
magnet system.
So this is a he, I mean a
complicated but much more better
system. So I need your full
attention. Before I start in the
immune system to represent
negative number, I have to have.
Explain 2 new topic.
The first one is called
diminished radix complement.
So what is this?
This is a mathematical topic
which basically says that.
If you are given a number N.
In any basis are.
And your end positions or N
digits. So this is already
determined, so you have a
number N in base R and the
number of positions or N.
By definition they are minus
ones, complements or it's called
diminished radix complement of
the number is equal to this
equation. Or to the power of N
-- 1 -- X.
So basically you have to
subtract your number.
From the largest number.
Given N positions.
The largest number given and
positions, or are the type of N
-- 1 you already saw this.
Without sun so far, we don't
care about the sun. We simply
say that all the numbers are on
sign. So if you are given N
positions, the largest number is
R to the power of N -- 1. So the
diminished radix of a number is
just subtracting your number
from that largest number.
So let's see what does it mean
in base two as an example, in
base two or is equal to two or
minus one is equal to 1. So
engage two. We have ones
complement.
So.
In one's complement, if you are
given 5 positions.
Position zero position one up
until the fourth position in
total five position 2 to the
power of five is equal to
putting one in another new
position and in all the other
remaining position 0.
And then if you subtract 1
unit, it becomes the largest
number given 5 positions. We
already know that.
The largest number.
The five positions.
Which is equal to 2 to the power
of 5 -- 1.
Now the one's complement of any
other planet numbers is just
subtracting that number from
this number. When it says if you
are given this number.
One's complement of this number
is just subtracting that large
number that largest number given
five position minus your given
number. So 1 -- 1 becomes
zero, 1 -- 0 becomes one, 1 --
1 becomes zero up until the end.
So if you compare the results of
1's complement in base 2 in
binary system, you see that the
result is the not half of the
number. So here 0 is not one.
Here one is not zero. Here 0 is
not one headset.
So that map formulation becomes
this. The one's complement of
any number in binary system is
just simply not each digit.
That simple. So instead of just
doing that math formulation, you
can simply do this. This is the
faster way. Because as we see
here, the one's complement of
any binary number is.
This. The largest number minus
one. And then your number
from that.
If we are given in another basis
for incentive based 4IN base for
the R is equal to 1. Sorry is
the R is equal to 4.
They are minus one is equal to
three. So in base four we have
fries. Compliment the threes,
compliment is simply.
4 to the power of 5 -- 1.
Cheers. The largest
number. Been given five
position in base four. We
already saw that you just
Simply put the largest digit
in all the given position.
This is the largest number.
And then if you want to
calculate the threes complements
of any number in base four, it
becomes just simply.
This is if you are given this
number 12130. You have to simply
subtract this number from the
largest number. It means that
each digit of your number minus
the largest digit.
So that's the math formula.
And this is the, uh, I mean
the algorithm. So basically you
just simply. If you are given
this number, the three
complement of this number is
just simply it's digital. This
number minus the largest digit 0
-- 3 become free.
And etc.
So the math formula in this
algorithm is the same.
How about based on based NAR is
equal to 10 or minus, one is 9.
So in basement we have nice
compliment. So the nice
compliment based on
what is that is simply.
Each number, each digit of
your number.
Subtracted from the
largest digit.
So if you are given this number
1213 in base 10.
Means that the
complement of this
number is that each
digit subtracted from
the largest digit.
9 -- 0 nine
936 at set.
So what I say is that you don't
need to do the actual Matthew,
just simply you are given this
number. You just subtract each
digit from the largest digit
which is 9. So nine from zero is
995369 from one is 8 and such.
So 9 minus each did this is the
nice compliment. You would say
that what's the use of nuns
compliment? I'll explain, but
just remember this algorithm.
Are minus ones complement of any
number in base R?
This is the uh, general
formulation. The diminished
radix of any number in base RR
minus ones complement of any
number in base R is equal to
simply. Subtract each digit from
the largest digit.
In that case.
So the next topic is this.
The next topic says that
radix complement. The
previous topic was
diminished. Radix
diminishment just. I mean
smaller or reduced of
something. But here we
have radix complement.
Radix complement is just.
By math formulation is this.
The radix complement or ours
compliment of a number is.
R to the power of N minus.
So by math formulation,
basically just one unit.
Larger or one unit after
the diminished radix. So if
you have the diminished
radix or once all minus
ones complement of the
number, you have to simply
add 1 unit.
And then this is the radix
complement. So have a look at
the base 2IN base two. We have
Two's complements. So in any
base, all you have ours
compliment. In base two, the two
complement is just. One's
complement. Meaning that the
knot of each digit plus one.
You can't do the actual math.
But in, uh, in algorithmic way,
if you are given a number, the
Two's complement of this number
is just do this. One's
complement plus one the one's
complement is not of each digit,
which is this.
Plus one.
There's another way to do this
in the lab assignment you have
to program to calculate the two
stumps. There's another
algorithm to find the Two's
complement in base two, only
that you can refer them there
for another algorithm.
But yeah, this is the way that
that we can calculate the Two's
complement of binary number.
In base four, we have four
components, which basically
means that during the freeze
compliment. So please
compliment is each digit
minus the largest digit.
This plus one.
This is the first compliment of
the given number.
And this is the math
formulation. So if you do the
math and if you do this
algorithm both end up with the
same result. AutoCAD and asked
that are forced binary number no
no no. You cannot do that
because as we said, if you are
based or we have only two type
of compliments or complements
and all minus one compliment. So
if you are in base two you have
one's complement and twos
compliment. You cannot have more
than that if you are in base 4 you have a 3's complement
and 4's complement you cannot
have. for instance 5's complement because you
always full, so the
compliments are or or or
minus one. So less than
the base number.
In base 10 you can have 10s
complement. You cannot have
for instance 11 complements 12's complement, so the complements
are just less than the base
number. So in base 10 the R's complement becomes 10's
complement which is 9's complement plus one.
So if you are given this number,
you have to simply subtract each
digit from 99 from zero 9 -- 0
becomes 9913 becomes six, 9 -- 1
becomes 8, and then add 1 unit.
If you add 1 unit it becomes 10.
Plus a carry and then 1 + 6,
seven and etc.
You can do the math, but this is
another algorithm, so nice
compliment plus one or each
digit minus 9 + 1.
And one thing this plus one is
just the last one, so you don't
add 1 to each digit.
First you subtract each digit
from the 9:00 and then you add.
Finally just one unit.
In ours, complement of any base
are, so you have to do our minus
ones complement plus one.
So now I'm ready to introduce
the next. System that
route can represent negative
numbers much more efficiently
than Design magazine.
This system is called sign
compliment, so the previous
system was signed magnitude.
Here we have signed compliment.
So let's see what is
this system.
In this system, we said that at
first we have only positive
numbers or unsigned numbers, so
zero up until now.
And then we said that if you
want to present in negative
number, we have to give up one
of the positive numbers and
assume that that positive number
is a negative number.
For instance, you could say that
I don't have three anymore, so I
give up the number 3 to
represent it as minus one.
So you give up one position for
a number. Instead you give it to
another negative number.
You could give any unsigned
integer numbers. But in the sign
magnitude star in the sign
compliment, it says that instead
of just giving a random, giving
up a random number.
Give up nine 4 -- 1.
So here we don't have 9 anymore.
Whenever we see nine, we
interpret that as minus
one. So in this system
we don't have 9 anymore.
And the relationship here is
this. You give up 9 to
represent a negative number, and
that negative number is the 10s
complement of nine. So what is
the tense complement of nine?
As you can see here, 10s
complement is nice. Compliment
plus one which is 1.
So the 10's complements of nine is 1, so you give not you
give up 9 to represent minus.
The 10s complement of nine,
which is minus one.
So now you have a system that
you can represent one negative
number, and that number is minus
one. Or negative one.
So you can give up eight 4 --
2. And the 10s complement of
eight is 2. So you give up 8 in
order to represent negative 2.
You give up 7 to represent
the 10s complement of this
seven as a negative number,
so it becomes negative.
You give up six in order to
represent negative 4.
You give up five in order to
represent negative 5, so you can
give up all the positive numbers
to represent negative numbers.
So here. You give up zero the
10s complement of 0 is 9 -- 0 +
1, which is become zero, so this
is a statement that the zeros
the compliment of 0 is always 0,
so the compliment of 0 is 0.
The 10s complement of one is 9,
so you give up one for negative
nine. You give up to four
negative eight. You give up 3,
four negative 7.
Also the reverse.
The test content of the
negative numbers becomes
positive numbers.
So you see, the difference
between the siren compliment and
the sign magnitude in sign
magnitude magnitude was the
same. The only thing was
changing. It was the sign here.
You have positive numbers,
but the negative of that
is the 10s complement of
that. It's just not Simply
put this negative sign.
So for instance 4 you lose 4 to
represent. Negative 6.
So.
You could decide that we only
have answer numbers or you only
have negative numbers, but if
you want to have both of them.
You can make it split. You could
say that the first half.
I don't do anything on top of
them. The first half is just
unsigned positive, not positive
numbers. However, the second
half, although I see five, but I
interpret five as the 10s
complement of fire, which is
minus 5. Oh go VC 6
but this is not six anymore. We
interpret this as.
Negative 4 the 10s complement of
six is 4 so negative 4.
So this way when you split the
rent of numbers given a specific
position, for instance one
position, you have both positive
and negative numbers.
So. The first range of numbers,
the first half of the numbers
there are positive. You see
zero. You interpret zero. You
see what you interpret it as one
the same up until four. However,
when you go to the second half
of the numbers.
When you see the number, you
interpret it as negative 10s
complement of that number.
So you see, five you interpreted
as negative 5.
You see six you interpreted as
negative 4. And the interesting
thing here is this. Although you
see nine, this is not mine
anymore. It is the 10s
complement of nine. The tense
complement of nine is 1, so you.
Interpreted as negative one.
So here we don't assign any
specific position for sign.
We have the positions. All
the positions are part of the
number. The only thing is
that by contract we interpret
the second half of the
numbers as negative numbers.
This is a contract.
So this system is called signed
tense complements. So in base 10
we have signed 10s complement.
So if you are given an positions
from zero up until.
N -- 1 in total in positions.
The first range of numbers, if
the number is within zero up
until the. A range of numbers,
the first half of the numbers.
This is the largest number
divided by two. As long as
your number is between these
range, you don't do anything.
This is a positive number.
However, if the number you see
is between. It is within the
second half of the numbers, so
between the largest number
divided by 2 + 1 and the largest
possible number given in
positions. Although you see a
positive number without any
song. But you have to interpret
it as a negative.
How you find the negative
interpretation. You just simply
apply 10s complement.
So if the number is within this
range, you are quite tense.
Compliment to see what is the
negative number. So just to give
you an example. Assuming we are
given 7 positions, Ann is equal
to 7 from the position 012 up
until six, we are given 7
positions. Now we want to
see that this number is positive
or negative. We cannot say that
this is the number 580.
5 million 805 thousand something
we cannot see that first of all
we have to see what is the sign
of the number. There is no
position for sign. So the only
thing we can determine the sign
is this. To check this number is
within the first range of
numbers or the second range of
numbers. The first trend of
numbers are between zero up
until how many positions. We
have seven position, so 10 to
the power of 7 -- 1. This is
the largest number given seven
position divided by two. If
this number is within this
range, this is a positive
number. Otherwise, if it is in
the second race, meaning that
higher than this number, it is
a negative number. So let's
check that.
So this is the largest number 10
to the power of 7 -- 1 / 2,
which is this number.
If you do the calculation.
So this is the largest number
divided by two. This is the
maximum number in the first
range. So if you compare this
number with the given number,
you see that the given number
is greater than the first half
of the numbers.
So this number is negative, so
this is not 580 something. This
is a negative number, so what's
the negative number you have to
apply 10s complement on the
given number 10s complements of
the given number is 9's
complement plus one 9's
complement is just subtract each
digit from 9, so each digit from
9 + 1.
This is the each digit from
subtract 3 from 9 + 1.
This is the result this
number, although you see 5805074
but this number is actually
this number. Negative 419-4926.
Before I do the this, check
that whether this number is
within the first or second
half, I cannot say that
this what is this number?
The reverse. The underwear on
the other way around. If I'm
given a negative number an I'm
asked to represent this negative
number in this signed.
10s complement system FaceTime.
So this is a negative number in
the assigned based assignment
complements. There is no
position for negative sign. I
have to find what is the
positive representation of this
negative number. So basically,
if you do, you have to find the
positive compliment. You
have to simply apply the
tennis compliments.
If you apply the 10s complement
means that nuns complements plus
one nice compliment means that
just simply subtract each digit
from 9 + 1.
So if you subtract, I mean
9 from 6 is 39549 is
4. 2 from 9 is 7 and etc,
so this is the nice compliment.
Plus one becomes tense
compliment so this is the
number. So if you want to
represent this negative
number, you have to put this
digits 6549, etc.
So it's kind of strange, but
it is very efficient. You
don't lose a position for
sign, you use the positive
numbers for representing the
negative numbers.
Let's try another example. In a
base 16 in base 16, the Rs
compliment audit 16, it becomes
16's complement. So we have
signed 16's complement, meaning
that we are in base 16 and
we represent negative numbers
based on the 16th compliment.
So here is an example.
In the question it says that you
are in base 16.
And the question says that what
system you are.
Hi there, you are in a non sign
system or you are in a signed
magnitude system or you are in
16's complement system.
Assuming that this number in
this 16's complement system.
So now we don't know what's this
sign of this number.
First of all, we have to see
whether this number is a
negative or positive number.
So you have to see how many
position you are given. So how
many position 123456?
This number have six positions.
So now you have to see that this
number is within the first range
of numbers, or this first half
range of the numbers, or the
second half range of numbers.
To do that, you have to see the
largest number, which is 16 to
the power of number of positions
minus one. This is the largest
number divided by two.
In this 16, this number is
equal to this. I put the
decimal number because we
usually do the math in 16, so
you can use Calculator to see
what's the number and then you
convert it to base 16.
So this is the largest
positive number for the
first half of the numbers.
Now you have to compare the
given number with this number.
You see that this given number.
He is less than this number. Why
is that? Because here we have 7.
Here we have one.
So this given number is less
than this number. As a result,
this number is positive. Now
that this number is positive,
the numbers actually.
Positive one BF something. So
when the number is positive
you don't do anything. It
just simply say that this is
a positive number and this is
the actual number.
How about this number?
I just changed the, uh, this
digit 2E. So again, your
argument invalid number in base
16 Anuar said that you are in
16's complement system.
So now you have to see
whether this number is
a negative or positive.
You are given an position six.
You have to see what is the
largest number divided by two.
So the largest number 16,006 --
1 / 2.
As we already calculated that
this is the largest positive
number in the first half of the
number range of numbers.
Now that if you compare this
given number and the first, the
largest digit in the first half,
you see that this is larger.
Because it has E here. Here
we have 7 so E is greater
than seven. So this given
number is negative.
What's the negative number?
Although you see Ebf two before
but this is a negative number to
see what's the negative number
you have to apply 16's
complement of this number so the
16's complement is just 15
compliment plus 115 compliment
is means each digit my subtract
each digit from the largest
digit in 16th system, the
largest digital 16 system is F.
So basically you have to
subtract each digit from F.
Which becomes this plus one.
So although you see Ebf two
before, but this is actually
negative one 40D4C.
On the way around, if you are
given this negative number and
you are set to represent this
number in base 1616's
complement system, you have to
because there is no negative
sign. You have to come up.
What is the positive
representation of this
negative number.
So basically you apply
sixteens complements.
16's complement is 15 compliment
plus one. This is the 16th
compliment. So when you want to
represent negative number you
represented at the 16's
complement system. So this
number is represented with six
position Ebf 2B, four.
In any base R.
You have to do this checking.
If you are in assigned hours
compliment. In any base R, if
you are given an positions from
zero up until N -- 1.
You have to 1st find the first
range of numbers. The first
range of numbers is between zero
up until R to the power of N --
1 / 2.
If you calculate for base two,
it becomes this number. For base
four becomes this number. For
base eight becomes this an, etc.
But be careful.
Based three, I haven't put the
base free here at home. Try to
figure out what's the base 3
first range of numbers.
If the numbers are between the
first range, for instance, if
you are in base two, if your
number is between zero, up
until this number, it means
that the number is puzzled.
You don't do anything.
Or if you are in base 16 and
you're given number is between
0, contact this number. It is
positive you don't do anything.
However.
If you're given number is 1 unit
after the largest first rent. So
if you are a number in base two
and your number is either this
or greater than this, it's it
means that the your number is
negative. And in order to
have a correct
interpretation, you have to
apply ours compliment of the
number.
Which is our minus ones
complement plus one.
In base 16, if your number is
greater than this number, this
is a negative number. You have
to do a compliment, 16th
compliment and etc. I put
these numbers just because
these these are straight
forward to calculate, but be
careful about the other
basis function space. Three
base, 45 space six you have
to calculate the first range
and then see whether your
number is within the first
range. First half of the
numbers or the second half
of the numbers.
And in terms of arithmetic,
I just wanted to.
Say what's the arithmetic in
science or compliment now that
we don't have any position for
sign and we represent negative
numbers as positive numbers? So
what's the arithmetic?
The beauty of the sign of
complements, although it is kind
of strange, hard to understand
or heart, it's kind of.
Not very intuitive.
But the beauty is this.
The arithmetic in as assigned as
compliment is very simple.
If you do add addition, you
don't care about the sign of
the number, you just simply
do the addition.
You don't have to figure out
what's the number. Is it a
negative number or positive
number? You just assume that
these are some numbers and
you have to do addition.
You're just simply be within
normal addition.
In terms of the subtraction.
X -- Y again you don't
care about this sign of
white, you just simply.
Do the subtraction.
Convert the subtraction through
addition and then convert the
second number into ours
compliment. Again, you don't
care about the sign of what.
If you are given X -- Y, you
simply do X plus the ice
complement of Y, and you don't
care about the sign of why.
And the result is always in
the correct sign.
That's the beauty of the
artist. Compliment science
system. So let's have a an
example in addition.
What is this you are given
these two numbers in base two
and you are set up. We are in
the twos complement system.
In Two's complement system, all
the positions of the number.
So you don't care about whether
the first number is negative or
positive or the second number is
negative or positive. You just
do this addition. But just for
our information, I did just to
show you that what's the actual
number for the first number? The
first number you have to see
whether this is positive or
negative, although 4 edition is
not necessary just to show you
that what's this number?
So this number you have to
determine whether it is the
first half or second half range
of numbers. You are given six
position 2 to the power of 6 --
1 / 2 is this number and they
given number is larger than this
number. As a result, the given
number is negative. You have to
apply the Two's complement and
this is the two complement of
the number. So in fact the first
number is a negative number and
this is a negative number.
But for the addition, we don't
care about whether this number
is positive or negative.
The second number is
less than the 1st.
Have range of numbers so as a
result this is a positive
number. So indeed we are doing a
-- 21 + + 14. But again, because
these numbers are in 2's
complement system, we don't care
about the sign, we just simply
do the addition. So 1 + 0 one 1
+ 1 becomes 20. Here Carry And
etc. This is the result.
You see how simple is that? You
just add the two numbers
regardless of these sign. But
what is the interpretation of
the results? What is the actual?
I mean in number?
Although this is the correct
result, you have to see this
number is positive or negative,
so you have to check whether
this number is within the first
half of the numbers or the
second range of the numbers.
If you compare with the this
number, it is larger than this
number. As a result, the number
is negative. In order to figure
out what's the negative number,
you have to apply to compliment
and twos complement. Is this so?
This is minus seven and this is
a correct result.
You see that I mean without
caring about this sign of the
number. If you do the addition.
You come, you end up with
the correct result.
For the subtraction, again, if
you are doing the subtracting 2
numbers, the only thing is that
you have to convert the
subtraction to addition.
To do that, you have to simply
do the Two's complement of the
second number if you are in base
1616's complement of the second
number. And if you do
that, uh? First name is actually
minus 21. The second number is
actually plus eight, but you
don't care about the sign, you
just simply do the tools
component of the second number.
The Two's complement of
the second number if you
do that, it becomes this.
So you replace the second
number with this number.
And then do the addition. So
this abstraction becomes the
addition and then you do the
addition.
And here is the result. If you
have a last carry, you just
simply ignore the last carry.
That's another beauty of this
sign math complement system.
This is the result. Now if you
want to check that the result is
correct, you have to see whether
this number is positive or
negative. This number is greater
than the first half. In fact,
this number is negative and this
is the negative number.
But you don't have to do
this as you when you end
up with this result. This
result is always correct.
An in in the correct sign.
And this is equal to minus 29.
If you calculate that.
Um?
One last thing is that, uh.
Is it possible to have overflow
in signed complements? The
answer is yes.
And this is not as simple as
a sign magnitude.
In the signed complement system.
After doing the addition or when
you do the subtraction, you do
addition with the ask compliment
of the second number. After you
do this addition.
If you check their results and
the result is not in the correct
sign in the correct number is
the correct sign, it means that
an overflow happened.
So basically, if the addition of
two negative numbers becomes
positive, it is an overflow.
Or if the addition of two
positive numbers become
negative, it is an overflow. But
again, as you can see here.
Either you do subtraction or
addition, you actually do the
addition so these two statements
are from this this part.
So. If you do the addition
and the result, I mean after do
the addition. Uh, the result
must be negative, but it becomes
positive it's an overflow.
Or the you are adding two
positive numbers and there's all
this negative. This is an overflow
Just to make sure you, I just
wanted to say this again,
these negative numbers and
positive numbers is about
these two numbers.
So you always do addition, but
you have to be careful about
that. So let's have an example.
If you are in base two and you
want to do the subtraction. So
basically what you do is just
compliment the second number and
then do the addition so the
complement of the second number.
This is the complement of the
second number. You replace the
2nd with the complement
And now you are going to do the
addition. So you're adding two
numbers. These two numbers are
negative. Because these two
numbers are in the second round
of the numbers given six
position. If you do
the addition, you end
up with this number.
You don't know the sign of this
number. There is a carry, you
just simply ignore the Carrie.
And this number. Now you have
to see what is the sign of
this number. You have to see
whether this number is the
first range of numbers or
second range of number.
If you compare this number with
the largest digit in the first
round, it is less than that, so
the number is positive.
You are adding two negative
numbers. You end up with a
positive number as a result
and also happened. So you
have. You shouldn't look at
the result and simply say
that an overflow ha OK.
So. Here is the signed
complement system to represent
the negative numbers, and be
careful there is no sign
position in sign magnitude.
System is inside complement
system. So just to give you a
another, I mean note this
number, you could not simply
say that because there is a
zero here. This is a part
number. No, you have to check
this number with the first
range of the numbers. So this
is the last number within with
six position divided by two.
This is the largest number
within the first range of
numbers, because this number
is less than this number.
That's why we call. This
number is positive.
In the lecture assignment I said
that there's an exception in
binary system that in the binary
system, uh, there is
relationship between sign
magnitude and sign complement
system. An you can refer to the
lecture sign in to know more
about this relationship.
That's an exceptional finance.
The same binary assistant sign
magnitude. A binary system and
twos complement science system.
There is a relationship.
But not, uh, in other business.
So now we're done with today's
lecture and there is another
topic in the I mean in the first
chapter binary code. I'm not
going to cover this here in the.
In the third chapter I'm going
to cover this topic.
But not now.
I'm ready for your questions.
Today was a little bit, I mean,
uh, more math.
So I hope you all understand the
topics. So I have a
soft question here.
OK, so basically next ask, do we
have to convert to base two or
is it because the Q stated
base 2
Oh
Only if you have a number in
sign compliment. How do we
convert from positive to
negative and vice versa?
So as I said, I'm in. If you are
in a strong complement system.
It says that I mean let me back
to this slide. Basically in the
sign complement system, let me
go back here.
You have to apply the arts
compliment of a number to switch
between the negative and
positive numbers. So let's get
back in here.
This is slide.
So here. In in any
base our system.
If you want to see what's the
negative of a positive number,
you have to apply radix
complement in. If you are in
base 10, you have to do things
compliment. If you are in base
free you have to do freeze
compliment. And vice versa if
you want to represent a positive
number of a negative number, you have to apply the r's
complements of the number, yeah?
sign complements, you have two r's complements, there's
another. So here usually are
said that you are in assigned
are complements. So in order
to convert between positive to
negative and negative from positive, you have to do r's
complement
So there is another question
from.
Um?
Is there any question?
I'm I'm here if you if your
question is unanswered or I
missed your question, you can
put your question again and I
can answer it now.
Have a great day all. Thank you
so much for your attendance and
but I I I'm here also after.
From 11:30 I'm going to be
in the office so you can
have your question there.
Oh
Thank you
Zach. Thank you, ryohei
I just want to make sure that I.
Uh. Tetiana asked that any
number plus its
complement is always
the biggest hunger.
Uh.
Any number plus its complement.
Yes, yes, based on the math
formulation, yes, that's
correct. Let me go back to
the math formulation of the
base number.
Mean. And we
introduced the Radix
complement system.
Yeah. The radix complement. If
this is the radix complement of
a number N.
If you add the radix complement
often number with its own
number, it becomes the largest
number plus one actually.
Plus one.
So because N + R to the power
of N -- N becomes R to the
power of N, so this is not
the largest number. This is
the largest number +1.
Oh
Oh yes, yeah. In terms of our
minus one compliment correct?
Yes, in terms of our minus one
compliment. Let's back here.
Let's actually
mathematical
formulation of our one
is 1 compliment.
Yes, yes in the R -- 1
compliment or diminished
radix if you add this number
with N, it comes the largest
possible even 10 positions
correct? Yeah yeah.
Thank you, thank you so
much for your I mean.
These notes.
Um?
Yeah, and since there is no
other questions, so I'm going
to be in the office right
now, so I'll see you there.
Have a great day guys.
You too Tetiana. And.
Let me stop the recording.